# DisWall documentation

<!-- TOC -->
* [How it works](#how-it-works)
   * [Simplified firewall configuration](#simplified-firewall-configuration)
   * [Distributed part](#distributed-part)
* [Getting started](#getting-started)
   * [Dependencies](#dependencies)
   * [Installation](#installation)
   * [Configuration](#configuration)
* [Options and features](#options-and-features)
   * [Config options](#config-options)
   * [Commandline options](#commandline-options)
* [Motivation](#motivation)
<!-- TOC -->

## How it works

DisWall is an extension for your firewall. It supports `nftables` and `iptables`. For the latter it needs `ipset` to be installed too.
The main functionality is monitoring of attempts to scan inactive ports on your server and ban such IPs.
But if you use it in *distributed* mode, then you have an active list of scanning IPs from our honeypots.

We have a bunch of honeypots that are constantly banning such IPs and a server to maintain a database.
Now the banning intervals are variable - we ban for 15 minutes the first time, then 30 minutes, then an hour * scan attempts.
There are IPs that are banned for several months already.

So, how does it work?

Essentially, there are three parts of working DisWall:
1. Correctly configured firewall (`iptables` or `nftables`)
2. Logging facility (done by additional config of `rsyslog`)
3. DisWall service that is reading IPs from a logging pipe

### Simplified firewall configuration

`iptables` or `nftables` is configured to allow local and established connections as well as connections from explicitly defined IPs and/or networks.
In case of `iptables` it is done in `/usr/bin/diswall_init.sh` and this script is run by a service `diswall-fw-init`,
but in case of `nftables` it is done in `/etc/nftables.conf` and is run by `nftables` service itself.

In simple terms, there are two lists/sets to allow connections (`diswall-wl`) and to block connections (`diswall-bl`).

If some packet is not explicitly allowed then it is logged, and rsyslog takes only source IP from that logged packet
and writes it to a pipe (`/var/log/diswall/diswall/pipe`), and then DisWall reads it and blocks it by adding it to ipset list or nftables set.
Rsyslog is configured by a config file `/etc/rsyslog.d/10-diswall.conf`, it is added to your system during installation.

### Distributed part

DisWall itself would be a very simplistic app and would not get to its goal - to ban most of the port-scanning bots out there if it would not have network layer.
Every DisWall can connect to our NATS-server to be able to get new banned IPs from our special honeypots.

Just register on [diswall.stream](https://diswall.stream), confirm your e-mail, enter credentials to `/etc/diswall/diswall.conf` file and restart the service.
Your local diswall will constantly get new IPs to block on a constant basis. If some our honeypot blocks an IP it will get to you in a matter of milliseconds.

## Getting started

### Dependencies

First of all you will need some dependencies to be installed.
1. If you want to use iptables, then install iptables and ipset (`sudo apt install iptables ipset`). If you have nftables installed (like in fresh Debian 11), then you don't have to install firewall. And if you have some other firewall (`ufw` or `firewalld`) uninstall it.
2. If you want to use quick-install script from our site - make sure you have jq installed (`sudo apt install jq`).

### Installation

Use `curl https://get.diswall.stream | bash` or `wget -q -O - https://get.diswall.stream | bash` to install the DisWall.

### Configuration

1. If you want to use full-fledged DisWall then you need to register on [diswall.stream](https://diswall.stream), confirm e-mail address and copy credentials from our mail to `/etc/diswall/diswall.conf`.

2. This step maybe is most important. Open `/usr/bin/diswall_init.sh` (if you use iptables) with your preferred text editor and check all autogenerated rules for iptables that are in this file.
   If you use nftables, then open `/etc/nftables.conf` and check that configuration is correct.
   You can add some other rules to allow all connections from your home or office IPs no matter what to be sure that if something goes wrong you can connect to your server via SSH and correct things.

Only after these steps you can enable and start diswall service (`sudo systemctl enable --now diswall`).

## Options and features

### Config options

You can change default ipset lists names from `diswall-bl` and `diswall-wl` to anything you want. Just don't forget to change them in `/usr/bin/diswall_init.sh` too.

You can disable online functionality by changing `local_only` to false. But it is not recommended as the main purpose of DisWall is to provide distributed operation.

NATS configuration, and in particular `client_name` and `client_pass` should be familiar to you already - these you fill up when you register on DisWall website and install it on your server.

You can also change `hostname` of your server in communication with NATS-server. It doesn't need to be the same as your true hostname.

If you don't want to send statistics about how many IPs did you block and how many packets/bytes was dropped or accepted by your server, then you can disable sending stats to our server by changing `send_statistics` to false.

### Commandline options

All commandline parameters you can see if you run `diswall -h`, but here they are:

```
-h, --help                Print this help menu
-v, --version             Print version and exit
    --install             Install DisWall as system service (in client mode)
    --update              Update DisWall to latest release from GitHub
    --uninstall           Uninstall DisWall from your server
-d, --debug               Show trace messages, more than debug
-g, --generate            Generate fresh configuration file. It is better to redirect contents to file.
-c, --config FILE         Set configuration file path
    --log FILE            Set log file path
-f, --pipe-file FILE      Named pipe from which to fetch IPs
-s, --nats-server DOMAIN  NATS server name
-P, --port PORT           NATS server port
-n, --name NAME           NATS client name (login)
-p, --pass PASSWORD       NATS password
-l, --local-only          Don't connect to NATS server, work only locally
-a, --allow-list          Allow list name
-b, --block-list          Block list name
    --wl-add-ip IP        Add this IP to allow list
    --wl-add-comm COMMENT Comment to add with IP to allow list
    --wl-del-ip IP        Remove IP from allow list
    --bl-add-ip IP        Add this IP to block list
    --bl-del-ip IP        Remove IP from block list
-k, --kill                Kill already established connection using `ss -K`
    --server              Start diswall NATS server to handle init messages.
```

## Motivation

Imagine, that someone is going from town to town and from home to home and takes accurate info about every door lock, and then this person is publishing all info on the Internet.
This situation is horrible in real life, but in server administration world it is a common thing, and almost no one thinks about a defence against this kind of activity.

Port scans are indeed a common thing, we block about 1500 IPs that are scanning our honeypots in an hour. And almost any hacker attack start from port scan to determine all services that are open to an intruder.

Therefore, the main goal of DisWall is to protect servers from this type of hostile activity. And we think that we've done a great job.

